Constitution (Con)
  Constitution is a measure of your character's physical condition. This covers their overall health and physical strength. Swinging or throwing a weapon, climbing, lifting, and hauling all fall under this stat. As does your resistance to diseases and your ability to power through physical damage. 

Instinct (Inst)
  Instinct is a measurement of your characters senses and reflexes. All of your character's perceptive abilities fall under Instinct; including their senses and their ability to read people. It also governs your reflexes and reaction time. Generally, it also covers your ability to aim a ranged weapon that is not thrown.

Mind
  Mind governs your character's mental acumen. This stat governs your characters knowledge, problem solving, and overall sharpness. This also covers your character's societal awareness: manners, courtliness, and cultural knowledge all fall under this stat and may be used in social situations when rules and regulations are required. Questions of religion, history, and the occult all fall under the purview of Mind. 

Will
  Will covers your character's strength of conviction. Most importantly, this stat will aid in overcoming your character's exposure to Horrors (see page XXX) which threaten to splinter their mind. Additionally, this stat represents your characters force of will and their ability to influence others. Socially, this stat is used when you may be trying to sway others through your convictions, emotions, or cunning. 

Renown
  Renown is a stat that functions slightly differently than the other stats. Renown is a measurement of  your fame in the courts of Occult. Naturally, this will shift depending on your actions and accomplishments. You start with 1 renown and are able to gain and lose more as you play. You would gain 1 Renown whenever your list of accolades expands and you would lose 1 Renown whenever you give the courts a reason to whisper about you. 
  Renown isn't a morality system. This is purely a representation of how the world views your reputation. For instance, if you spare the life of a kindly forest denizen, the nearby village may view you worse as you let a 'threat' to them live. Morally, you know that the forest man if peaceful, but the village's opinion doesn’t necessarily weigh the morality the same and as news spread to the lord of the land, it will slowly diffuse into the courts.  
