The world of Occult is inspired by the late Medieval, early Renaissance periods in Europe. In its fashion and style, it draws heavily on the southern and central European modes of court, war, and society. From this, comes the themes of religion, persecution, and loss. The world is at its most fragile. Humanity is hounded by its eternal pursuers: plague, war, famine, and death. Yet they remain, resilient against the onslaught of both mundane and preternatural forces. 

		"They were given authority over a quarter of the Earth, to kill with sword, famine and plague, and by means of the beasts of the Earth."
-Revelations 8:6

The world is dark; old ink spilled on cold, white paper. The armor surrounding both cities and men is black, the stone and metal tainted by Decay.  Harsh reds and yellows of fire flicker across the demonic figures dancing in macabre ecstasy. At court and in the cities of Kings, daring soldiers and rogues don gaudy colors between the gaps of their armor to jest and dare at death. 

In Occult, the world is precious and impermeant. Death stands silently behind all. You have license to make change with no explanation beyond the Decay of the world. A milieu of Darkness lurks just outside of the light of civilization, and creeps amongst the shadows etched betwixt each person's soul. Revenants claw their way out of the grave pits. Were-beasts haunt the dark forests of the countryside. Demons lurk in the dark corners of cities and an in the Inferno of human hearts. 

This is ultimately a human story. Though it does fall into the broader fantasy genre, there are no elves and orcs. There are no wizards, nor high magic. Otherworldly forces serve motivations beyond understanding, and their interactions with mankind are purposeful and serve to highlight a facet of the human experience. 

While people suffer day-to-day, there is culture and innovation on a larger scale. Innovation and art abound around the cultural centers. Plague seems to spur new ideas. Demons incite inspiration. The visage of death spurs the basest urge to live. Architecture has thrived; cities of stone and iron to protect the population, but also proclaim the city's wealth and lavish in life. Culture thrives with the patronage of powerful noble families. Poetry, visual art, music; all experiencing their heights despite the constant Decay. A new age of mysticism has sprung up as a result. Alchemists and their permutations pursue the truth of reality though science and the arcane. Religion has become fractured, held together only by name and the veneration of the Saints. Occult arts permeate the halls of the highest aristocracy and the lowest pub alike. 

The Church (CHANGE NAME)
God is dead or never existed. The church doesn't focus on the will of god outside of scriptural texts. 
Hierarchy: the further away from the root you get, the more fractured the beliefs of the church become.
Saints: most venerated. Great Father is the first and only to remain whole and pure in death.
Practices: ritual cannibalisms, eating of raw flesh and blood, holy undead/resurrections. Communication with the dead.
Empire: great father names emperor

The Church call all it's flock. It is, in some ways, a monolith in this land. Every birth, marriage, and death can be found in its ledgers. Any person you ask would call themselves a member. However, if you were to ask them the tenets of their faith each would each expound different beliefs. Villages just mile apart may have very different practices. There are some core tenets that, without, the village chapel would seem heretical. 

It is a religion with an absent god. There is no divine communication, will of god, or acts within the world. The head of the church is the Great Father: the corpse of the first saint that has remained free of rot for centuries. He sits, encased in glass, enshrined at the center of the Greater Cathedral. The throne chamber is the most holy sanctum to the church and many make pilgrimages only to be turned away from the chamber by Cathedral Guards. It is through him that all miracles emanate. If there was a god above, he is dead and forgotten. All that remains are the whispers from the Father‘s corpse. 

The Deacons and priests of the church take it upon themselves to run their parishes as they see fit. They do however, unilaterally expound the sanctity of the Saint. These are holy martyrs and miracle workers that served the church and are venerated in their deaths. It is their body parts  that the Relequarians carry and through which they perform miracles. It has been an age since the last Saint lived, and their body parts are becoming increasingly rare. 

A few acts are common in the faith, but not universal. As mentioned above the veneration of Saints and the Father. In some groups, this goes so far as to claim necromantic communication with the Saints.  Some kind of burial practice is also common, usually with the goal to preserve the body in some way; Encased in honey, desiccated, stripped of flesh and entombed in a massive catacomb, etc. Some fringe groups claim to communicate with their dead ancestors as well, but this is far less common and would be seen as heretical. 

Ritualistic consumption of flesh and blood is also common; most often animal, but in some rare and extraordinary circumstances human (again, broadly heretical). These bloody Masses are performed with a call and response litany in which the clergyman will repeatedly remind the congregation that they are mortal and temporary.

Finally, the Church legitimizes the Empire. New Emperors are chosen by the whispers of the Great Father. Baked into the doctrine of the Church is the legitimization and exaltation of the Empire and vice versa. The Empire protects and maintains the Church as it's state religion and in turn, the Church offers a population that is inundated with the belief that the Empire is righteous and worthy of ruling. Helps cut down on revolts, ya'know. 

The Empire and The Courts

Demons, Undeath, and the Cursed
